Now the second piece to this is and
this is kind of the last
piece I want to talk about
in terms of component
testing fundamentals is,
in courses component how
do you test delete course?
Like how do you know that delete course
is doing what it's supposed to do?
Well, you don't need to
test the service because
that's not part of the unit under test.
In order for you to say in
a vacuum this function works,
I will know that this function
works because when I call this,
it calls this course services
delete with this course ID.
And so for this, what we use is a spy.
So I use mocks in spies all the time for
testing.
So a lot of times especially when you have
really fine grained component functions
is that you're not testing the logic.
In fact in here,
there's not very much logic.
It's set, maybe this piece right here.
And so what you could do is then say if I
pass in this course depending on the ID,
it's either going to call this or
this and that's what you could validate.
But let's go with just delete course.
So let's go back into our code here and
what we want to do is we want to spy on or
rather we want to validate it should call,
Let's say, Course.
We'll do this on
On delete, and so
essentially when we call delete,
it should call courses service delete.
And so that's what we want to validate.
So, within this, we're going to go.
And Within this block,
we're going to essentially
spy on the service,
make sure that that method was
called with the correct parameter.
But in order to do that,
the first thing that we need to do is
we need to create a reference to
the service that we can call and so
I'm just going to go courses service and
I'm going to type this to
courses service cuz we're
basically faking it, all right.
And so now, when we go into our
synchronous before each block,
we can also get a reference to
the service using debug element injector.
I also need to create a debug element.
I did that in the other component,
I didn't do it here.
So debug element, there we go.
And then we'll go here debug
element equals fixture.
Debug element and so
now I should be able to grab this
injector that get and
we want to get of course our courses
service which There we go.
All right, so using the debug element,
we're able to call the injector and
then we're able to get that service so
that we can reference it
in our test down here.
So as we're in the homestretch,
we're going to go and we will spy on this.
So let's go spy on and
we're going to spy on our courses service.
And we're going to call spy on
actually the delete method and
what we want to do is when you spy
you can do a couple different things.
You can just say stop, we can allow it
to call through, you can return and
so I recommend checking
the documentation for that.
But in this case,
we're just going to say call through.
And so notice here that it's saying,
well, this doesn't well.
I actually wrote the stub in here,
so let's go here.
There we go.
Of course the service delete and
call through.
Now what I want to do is we're
going to go component, delete, and
let's just pass in one, On delete course.
So when we pass this in,
we're sending in a course ID and
here we go, and
we expect service delete to
have been called with one.
All right, and but let's go ahead and
change this to 100.
So we'll run it green and
then we'll make it work.
So save, let's go back in here.
Now notice spy on delete
method does not exist.
So we'll go here,
just run up here real quick
and I'll just copy this,
we'll stub this out as well and
we'll call this delete because what we're
doing is we're using the service set.
So if you're just spying,
then Well if you're just spying then,
you can just inject it because you're
just spying and overriding it.
But in this case we're doing the stub and
then we're layering it with a spy.
So we'll go here, and
I always run these out of order.
So here expected spy delete to
have been called with 100 when
the call was actually one.
So we just go back down and
let's fix this.
So we'll just set this to one.
Let's save this and
provided this passes then I think we can
just summarize this and wrap this up.
So, there we go.
All right, a few dangling tests,
I wouldn't worry about that.
The main thing is just to review
that when you are testing
a component that you have
a testbed that essentially
creates the environment for
you to run your test.
Which means essentially you
are creating a very specific module for
this component to run in.
Then you from the testbed
can get a test fixture,
which is an instance that creates
an instance of that component and
returns it in a fixture which
allows you to for instance,
get a debug element and
a component instance.
as well as off of the debug element,
you can then query the component
Dom as you see here
that in I think I did that
in the users components.
Let me just jump in there real quick so
we can see that piece.
Here, there we go.
So debug element query and
then by CSS which is just
another convenience method, and
then you can run tests on that as well,
make sure not to forget to run detect
changes if you need to update the template
to validate it,
back to our courses component spec.
Is that you can also use debug
element injector to get a reference or
an instance of a service
that you can then spy on.
You can also override a service or
a dependency which I recommend
by marking out a stub and
approximating or writing just the amount
of functionality that you need.
This is nice if you have a service with
let's say 20 methods, but your component
is using let's say two, well you just
have to mock those methods out so
you can stub out just what you're using.
So you saw as we were running this,
that I didn't have to stub
delete until I actually
called it in my last test.
And so creating a stub and then using
this kind of longhand provides syntax.
You can override it.
So it's provide whatever you wanna
provide, then use value and then
you are essentially feeding the injector,
this is what I wanna use in its place.
And so then from there because
I wanna spy on the method,
then you can call the method
that encompasses it and
then you can come back and say I expected
this method to open called with this.
And so this I believe is I would say,
outside of some edge cases,
at least 80% of the test
that I write in components.
So testbed, test fixture,
debug element, mocks,
stubs, and spies is going to get
you a long ways down the road.
So thank you for
joining me on this module,
this completes component
testing fundamentals.